# Solving the Millionaires Problem with Carbyne Stack

In this tutorial, you will learn how to solve the millionaires problem using an
MPC function deployed on Carbyne Stack.

## Prerequisites

You need a deployed Carbyne Stack Virtual Cloud and the Carbyne Stack CLI.
Please see the [Platform Setup Guide](platform-setup.md) and the
[Deployment Guide](deployment.md) for instructions on how to get hold of these.

In addition, this guide assumes that you have the following tools installed:

- Java 8 (newer versions will not work)

## The Billionaires Problem

We use a variation of Andrew Yao's _Millionaires' Problem_ that is the secure
multi-party computation problem of deciding which of two millionaires, Alice and
Bob, is richer without revealing their actual wealth. Since the conception of
the problem, the world has moved on and we better speak today not of two
millionaires but of two (completely fictional) billionaires called Jeff and
Elon.

In the following, we describe how to solve this problem using Carbyne Stack. To
see how things work, let's put ourselves in Elon's shoes.

### Providing the Inputs

First, we upload the inputs to our calculation into the Carbyne Stack
[Amphora Secret Store](https://github.com/carbynestack/amphora). The inputs are
the billionaires' net worth in billions. Note that this obviously has to be done
in a private way by Jeff and Elon in a real-world setting.

```shell
# Create a secret representing Jeff's net worth (note that we work with billion USD here)
export JEFFS_NET_WORTH_ID=$(java -jar cs.jar amphora create-secret 177 -t billionaire=Jeff)

# And another one for Elon
export ELONS_NET_WORTH_ID=$(java -jar cs.jar amphora create-secret 151 -t billionaire=Elon)
```

We can check the secrets have been created using:

```shell
java -jar cs.jar amphora get-secrets
```

The output should resemble the following (the output you see will differ wrt.
identifiers and the `creation-date` tag):

```shell
ab160f93-3b7e-468f-b687-f9c46fb535f3
	billionaire -> Jeff
	creation-date -> 1630660117946
ef3e867f-9233-46fb-9cde-7a09c99bc32f
	billionaire -> Elon
	creation-date -> 1630660125951
```

### Invoke the Billionaires Function

Elon is eager to see whether he ranks first in the list of the richest people in
the world. To check that using the Carbyne Stack platform, a well-known global
media company which regularly publishes a list of the richest people in the
world came up with the following [MP-SPDZ](https://github.com/data61/MP-SPDZ)
program that does the job:

```shell
cat << 'EOF' > billionaires.mpc
# Prologue to read in the inputs
listen(10000)
socket_id = regint()
acceptclientconnection(socket_id, 10000)
v = sint.read_from_socket(socket_id, 2)

# The logic
first_billionaires_net_worth = v[0]
second_billionaires_net_worth= v[1]
result = first_billionaires_net_worth < second_billionaires_net_worth

# Epilogue to return the outputs 
resp = Array(1, sint)
resp[0] = result
sint.write_to_socket(socket_id, resp)
EOF
```

The program expects two inputs and does a simple comparison between them. The
result written as a secret to Amphora at the end of the program is either `1` in
case the first input is less than the second or `0` otherwise.

Elon invokes the program using the
[Ephemeral Serverless Compute Service](https://github.com/carbynestack/ephemeral)
as follows:

```shell
export RESULT_ID=$(cat billionaires.mpc | java -jar cs.jar ephemeral execute \
  -i $JEFFS_NET_WORTH_ID \
  -i $ELONS_NET_WORTH_ID \
  ephemeral-generic.default \
  | tail -n +2 \
  | sed 's/[][]//g')
```

The CLI spits out a list of identifiers of Amphora Secrets generated by the
program. The snippet above extracts the single identifier emitted in this
example and stores it in the `RESULT_ID` shell variable.

Using this identifier Elon can inspect the result of the execution using:

```shell
java -jar cs.jar amphora get-secret $RESULT_ID
```

The output being `0` tells Elon that unfortunately Jeff is still the alpha:

```shell
[0]
	creation-date -> 1630661192626
	gameID -> 7899b23c-4509-4ff8-a9ae-d9b59fa77fea
```

After buying a bunch of the fabulous new (and completely fictional) _Carbyne
Stack Altcoin_ and posting a tweet that one of his companies will accept that
coin for payments in the future, Elon wants to see whether he is finally in the
pole position. He deletes his old and submits his new net worth and triggers the
evaluation of the Billionaires Problem logic again using:

```shell
java -jar cs.jar amphora delete-secrets $ELONS_NET_WORTH_ID
export ELONS_NET_WORTH_ID=$(java -jar cs.jar amphora create-secret 179 -t billionaire=Elon)
export RESULT_ID=$(cat billionaires.mpc | java -jar cs.jar ephemeral execute \
  -i $JEFFS_NET_WORTH_ID \
  -i $ELONS_NET_WORTH_ID \
  ephemeral-generic.default \
  | tail -n +2 \
  | sed 's/[][]//g')
java -jar cs.jar amphora get-secret $RESULT_ID
```

This time the execution results in a '1', which creates a pleasantly warm
feeling in Elon's chest.

## Next Steps

This simple tutorial showcased only a small subset of the systems capabilities.
Feel free to explore the possibilities by playing around with the CLI.
